{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf230
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Geneva;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs18    (1992) The geodesic tent was originally going to be an experimental liner for the research dome. Again my wife Cynthia stepped in and made a case for using high quality tipi canvas. She had noticed how much work I put into my dome projects and didn't want any more aluminum foil quality stuff. \
   This dome was a lot of work for me, partly because I had to learn how to operate a sewing machine- a 1934 Singer that did not backstitch. The canvas was tightly woven 14oz. cotton and the thread was wiry polyester. The finished tent weighed 40 lb.(T18m-91-167.jpg) We had a great time with it, setting it up in several states. At state parks and festivals it looked huge among the manufactured camping dome tents. We lived in it for 6 weeks when we moved to North Carolina. With a floor mat made of Astrofoil bubblepack insulation we made it through many frosty nights. A bowl of coals from the campfire warmed things up. Later we burned charcoal in a small metal grill. There was good ventilation: all my domes have holes in the top with raincovers. Without a hole in the top moisture will accumulate. We used the tent again when we returned to Vermont to build our house, and slept in a small dome tent inside the big canvas one until the temperature dropped  too far below freezing. The most portable frame we used was made of little pine trees with carved ends and a hub made of vinyl water hose.(T188l-93-157.jpg)\
When we arrived in NC I was excited about tents, and tried a few experimental frames. \
\
  \
    T18b-92-60.jpg   Leicester, NC  November, 1992\
    T18d-92-61.jpg   Leicester, NC  November, 1992\
    T18e-93-111.jpg  Lake Powhatan State Park, Asheville, NC 1993\
    T18g-93-85.jpg   Lake Powhatan State Park, Asheville, NC 1993\
    T18i-95-57.jpg  Mars Hill, NC 1995   Peculiar gazebo frame was an experiment. We hung a polyester outer cover for the tent from the top half of this sphere as a sunshade. It was a playful project that provided me with some amusing dead ends.\
    T18\
}